# AWS Reinvent

I've just watched the AWS conference call invent keynote. There are several things that I've noticed that got my attention and I think that are important.

The first thing is that a AWS it's clearly stating that they are trying to use their own silicon that includes CPU for classical clothes and GPU for AI workloads. I guess the term GPU is no longer relevant because it means graphic processing unit and it's no longer used for graphics processing. Maybe they should start calling them AIPU. Anyway, there line of CPO is called I don't remember. And their line of AIP is called Trainium which I think you're so quite silly name. This is a big deal because historically companies like can tell AMD and Nvidia were providing the chips but now it looks like a WS is willing to use slightly less powerful chips but make them in the house so that they can eliminate the cost of the provider so I bet that the train compared to the most high end and video server AIP is slower but when it comes to adjust building as much servers as po serving as much as computer as possible, maybe trainer is just more cost-efficient for AWS. So although and read at the top of the world now and consider that one of the most successful companies in history and they are still have things to worry about.

The second theme is creating two tools for streamlining agent building and tools that enable production rate agents such as all kinds of guard drills and access to all kinds of API. I noticed it because previously this year open AI also had their conference and during that keynote they presented tools for building agents I believe I need to doublecheck it because it might have been the GitHub conference not the opener conference and confused a bit.
